Welcome back.
This section covers a few different D-3 odds and ends that we haven't had a chance to talk about yet.
Here's a brief overview of what we'll be learning in this video.
Will define what a tooltip is and learn how to build tools tips to help improve the readability of our
visualizations in the next video we'll learn about D-3 transitions and we'll use them to create animations
in our graphs during an update.
We'll also learn how to hook into a few different transition related events.
Then we'll learn how to make Ajax requests and D-3 so that we can grab data from other file formats
including Jaison and cxxxvi will also learn how to format data that we've requested and we'll learn
how to change multiple Ajax requests together with D-3 docu.
Let's get started.
As I said in this video we'll focus on tool tips.
So what's a tooltip by way of example let's revisit our scatterplot birthdate of by country in an earlier
video.
We built this scatterplot and included axes and labels to clarify what exactly were graphing what I'd
like to do now is make it so that when I hover over any one of these circles a box appears with more
detailed information on the country.
This box is typically called a tooltip D-3 doesn't come with much built in functionality to create tool
tips.
And while there are tooltip libraries out there it's not that hard to create a tooltip from scratch.
Before we start coding though let's think about what functionality we'd like our tooltip to have.
We'll probably need to create a device that isn't visible until the user hovers over a circle in the
scatterplot when the user hovers will need to move our tool tooltip so that it's near the circle and
update its contents based on the data.
Then when the user moves away from the circle we'll need to hide the tooltip again.
We can implement this functionality with the three and a bit of CSX to begin we'll use D-3 to append
a div to the page with a class of tooltip.
I could write style rules majority group too but only just that quite a few properties.
So I'll just write some CSSA instead.
Well continue to add styles as we go for now.
The most important thing is that we set the opacity to zero and that we give our tooltip absolute positioning
the absolute positioning will let us control where the div shows up based on where we place our mouse
next let's write some code that will update the tooltip when the user mouse is over a data point.
For this on need to select all circle elements and then attach a listener for mouse events.
When this event is triggered I'll take my tool tip selection set its opacity to one and update its text.
For now I won't worry about displaying any data I'll just hardcoded string and make sure something is
showing up.
What about the location of the tooltip for this.
I can set the left and top properties of the div based on the event.
I'll use the x and y properties on D-3 event here which give me the coordinates of the mouse position.
I also need to specify what my units are.
In this case there are pixels.
While we're here I'll also add an event listener for when I'm asked out of a circle.
This event listener will be pretty simple.
I'll just set the tool tips opacity back to zero when I refresh the page.
I see that the tooltip is working well.
Sort of the tooltip shows up but there's this annoying flickering going on.
The problem is that as soon as I mouse over a circle the tooltip moves to the location of my pointer
causing my pointer to mouse over the tooltip and out of the circle.
As soon as my Tooltip becomes visible it becomes invisible again.
The easiest way to fix this is to set pointer events to none for my Tooltip in the C S S.
This basically tells my mouse to ignore the tooltip entirely so that the motion of the tooltip doesn't
cause the mouse out event to fire on the circle there.
That looks much better.
While we're modifying this VSS style the tooltip a bit more.
I'll add a background color border border radius and padding cool that's looking better.
Next let's update the text so that it actually shows data about the current region.
To do this we'll need to pass the circle's data into our mouseover callback first.
Let's just see if we can get the name of the region to show up sweet since that's working.
Let's update what we display to show even more data on the region.
Now I want to show everything the name of the region the number of births the total population the land
area and the life expectancy.
That's a lot of data to be storing.
So rather than create a long string of text that HVM instead or use E.S. 2015 template strings to make
the process of creating this HDMI easier otherwise it will involve a lot of nested dependes or a lot
of concatenated strings.
Either way the code will get a little hard to read this way.
I can see the structure of the HVM very easily I'll also style these be tags so that there's less space
in between them.
This looks OK but some of these long numbers can be hard to read.
I'd like to format these numbers to be a little more readable.
D-3 has some formatting helpers but to keep things simple for now I'll just use the built in to local
string method in javascript which converts a number to a more readable version of that number.
Next I'd like to center the tooltip based on my mouse position rather than having it all the way to
the right.
I'll do this by changing how I set the Left property so that it accounts for the width of the div to
access the day of using the 3 node on my Tooltip variable and then access its width offset the Left
property by half the width of my Tooltip And while I'm here I'll also move the tool tip down a bit.
One last little silent flourish they often see with tool tips involves adding a triangle on the side
facing the mouse so that the tool tip looks like a speech bubble.
There are a number of ways you can do this with CSSA but will do it using the before pseudo element.
We can create a triangle by setting the border on this element to be transparent but then setting a
different color for the bottom of the border to see this element in its entirety.
Let's give it a visible background color.
There it is.
As you can see the border bottom setting only impacts the bottom part of the element.
Now let's set the border to transparent.
There are two steps complete one last important thing to note is that our tools won't currently work
on mobile.
That's because such events are different from mass events so the mouse event won't fire on a phone or
tablet to fix this.
We can simply pull our callbacks out into named functions and then add them as event listeners to both
mass events and touch events that touch events will listen for our touch start and touch and that's
it for all tips for some extra practice.
Go back through your old visualizations and try adding tool tips to them in the next video.
We'll learn about another UI enhancement transitions.